.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" This program is distributed according to the Gnu General Public License.
.\" See the file COPYING in the kernel source directory
.\"
.TH KSYMS 8 "February 12, 2003" Linux "Linux Module Support"
.SH NAME
ksyms \- display exported kernel symbols.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ksyms
[\-ahm]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ksyms
shows information about exported kernel symbols.  The format is
address, name, and defining module.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Display all symbols.  By default, symbols from the kernel proper
are suppressed.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-noheader
Suppress the column header.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-help
Display a summary of options and exit.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-info
Display module information.  Includes each module's kernel load address
and size in the listing.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version of \fBksyms\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR insmod (8),\  modprobe (8),\  depmod (8),\  rmmod (8),\  lsmod (8).
.SH BUGS
\fBksyms\fR [ \-V | \-\-version ] should exit immediately.  Instead, it
prints the version information and behaves as if no options were given.
.P
Although the fix for this bug is trivial, it changes the behaviour of
modutils.
Given the large number of distributions and scripts that run modutils
and expect the current behaviour, any change of behaviour is
unacceptable in 2.4.
Don't bother sending patches for this bug, it will not be fixed in 2.4,
it should be fixed in 2.5.
.SH HISTORY
The \fBksyms\fR command was first conceived by Bjorn Ekwall <bj0rn@blox.se>
.br
The '\fB\-m\fR' option was inspired by David Hinds
<dhinds@allegro.stanford.edu>
.br
Updated for 2.1.17 by Richard Henderson <rth@tamu.edu>
