.\" Copyright (c) 1994, 1995, 1999 Bjorn Ekwall <bj0rn@blox.se>
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc. (via rth)
.\" This program is distributed according to the Gnu General Public License.
.\" See the file COPYING in the distribution source directory
.\"
.TH RMMOD 8 "February 12, 2003" Linux "Linux Module Support"
.SH NAME
rmmod \- unload loadable modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.B rmmod
[ \-aehrsvV ] module ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rmmod
unloads loadable modules from the running kernel.
.PP
.B rmmod
tries to unload a set of modules from the kernel, with the restriction
that they are not in use and that they are not referred to by other modules.
.PP
If more than one module is named on the command line, the modules
will be removed in the given order. This supports unloading of stacked modules.
.PP
With the option '\fB-r\fR', a recursive removal of modules will be attempted.
This means that if a top module in a stack is named on the command line,
all modules that are used by this module will be removed as well, if possible.
.PP
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Do autoclean: tag unused modules as "to be cleaned", and also remove
already tagged modules.
Modules stay tagged if they stay unused since previous autoclean.
These two passes avoid removing transiently unused modules.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-persist
Save persistent data for the named modules, without unloading any
modules.  If no module names are specified then data is saved for all
modules that have persistent data.  Data is only saved if both the
kernel and modutils support persistent data and \fI/proc/ksyms\fR contains an
entry
.br
__insmod_\fImodulename\fP_P\fIpersistent_filename\fP
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a summary of options and immediately exit.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-stacks
Remove a module stack.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-syslog
Output everything to \fBsyslog\fP(3) instead of the terminal.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Be verbose.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the version of \fBmodutils\fR.
.SH PERSISTENT DATA
If a module contains persistent data (see
.BR insmod (8)
and
.BR modules.conf (5))
then removing the module always writes the persistent data to the
filename in the __insmod _P symbol entry.  You can also save the
persistent data at any time by \fBrmmod\ -e\fR, this will not unload any
modules.
.PP
When the persistent data is written to file, it is preceded by a
generated comment line,
.br
#% \fIkernel_version timestamp\fR
.br
Generated comment lines start with '#%', all generated comments are
stripped from the existing file, other comments are preserved.  The
saved data values are written to the file, preserving the existing
order of comments and assignments.  New values are added at the end of
the file.  If the file contains values that do not exist in the module
then these values are preserved but are preceded by a generated comment
warning that they are not being used.  The latter operation allows a
user to switch between kernels without losing persistent data and
without getting any error messages.
.PP
.B Note:
Comments are only supported when the first non-space character on a
line is '#'.  Any non-blank lines that do not start with '#' are module
options, one per line.  The option lines have leading spaces removed,
the remainder of the line is passed to insmod as an option, including
any trailing characters.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR insmod "(8), " lsmod "(8), " ksyms "(8), " modprobe "(8)."
.SH BUGS
\fBrmmod\fR [\fB\-V\fR\ |\ \fB\-\-version\fR] should display version
information and then exit immediately.  Instead, it prints the version
information and behaves as if no options were given.
.P
Although the fix for this bug is trivial, it changes the behaviour of
modutils.
Given the large number of distributions and scripts that run modutils
and expect the current behaviour, any change of behaviour is
unacceptable in 2.4.
Don't bother sending patches for this bug, it will not be fixed in 2.4,
it should be fixed in 2.5.
.SH HISTORY
Module support was first conceived by Anonymous
.br
Initial Linux version by Bas Laarhoven <bas@vimec.nl>
.br
Version 0.99.14 by Jon Tombs <jon@gtex02.us.es>
.br
Extended by Bjorn Ekwall <bj0rn@blox.se>
.br
Updated for 2.1.17 by Richard Henderson <rth@tamu.edu>
.br
Updated for 2.2.2 by by Bjorn Ekwall <bj0rn@blox.se>
.br
Updated for modutils 2.3.20 by by Keith Owens <kaos@ocs.com.au>
.br
Persistent data for modutils 2.3.22 by by Keith Owens <kaos@ocs.com.au>
